#summary Step 2. Technical step one. Get your model ready
#labels Model,Phase-Design,Featured

==Model==

Alright, so now you have everything ready. Time to start deciding on how your rover will look like. Look at the model I have uploaded to 'downloads' to get an idea of what it might look like. 

Your robot can look however you want, just make sure there is enough room for everything. 

So how would you start modeling? We'll I used this software:
Open: http://usa.autodesk.com/autodesk-inventor/
Go to: Trial version or buy the full version

IF you are a student, then:
Open: http://students.autodesk.com/?nd=download_center
Scroll to: Autodesk Inventor Professional
And follow: 'Download' instructions

You do not have to necessarily use this expensive, software, I am sure you would do just as well with something like Google Sketchup Basic. But make sure that if you are going to use a waterjet or similar machine, you use proper drafting software. 

As a matter of fact, if you are just going to be building the chassis yourself, you could even get away with simply sketching the design. 

But with the designing software, you can make sure everything fits and you have enough room.

Here are the models for my final rover design (note: version 2 was the version built):

http://grabcad.com/library/pacerr-robot-v2
http://grabcad.com/library/pacerr-rover-v1

As you seen, my models are pretty complicated and detailed. You just have to make sure you have some sort of design laid out for the body of your robot.

Some things to keep in mind are:

- The robot must have room for the arduino, a breadboard (if necessary), and extra sensors that you wish to add.
- The robot must be made of a good material (I used aluminum but you could use anything like plastic, other good metal or even wood)

These are just some guidelines and when you have finished making you physical robot, head on to the next tutorial for the next step.    